---
layout: post
title:      "**#Mom Wants to Know About Variables and Methods**"
date:       2017-10-14 13:02:28 -0400
permalink:  mom_wants_to_know_about_variables_and_methods
---


        I'd just completed the lessons and labs on Variables and Methods, and my buddy and I were on the phone discussing how it relates to Algebra. My mother walked in and asked about the meaning of the words "variables and methods" as she'd heard me mention repeatedly in our conversation. I told her that we were talking about variables - "Something that's always changing".
				"Sounds like most politicians to me" she replied. "No, that's not what I mean" I added. She justified, "Sure, it may not be the same thing Son, but it sure does have the same meaning "...always changing". Just tell me how come the tech guys want to use the same words too". I followed with "No Mom, those are two of the most important words (or concepts) in the tech world! The tech guys are not the ones changing all the time but the tools that they use." 
				"What are they called again?" she interrupted. "Variables and Methods" I responded a little angry by now. "Alright, proceed. You have my ears" with a wave of the hand as would a judge in a courtroom. I proceeded with "You know Mom, the concept of variable is a fundamental building block of software development. Without that, we wouldn't be able to go beyond the surface level of saying things directly. As what we're saying becomes more complex, there has to be a way of connecting those ideas at a deeper level." I looked at her face to see if I was making sense and she responed with "go ahead, I'm listening". I asked "You took Algebra in high school, right?" "Yes, that was a long time ago. Don't get me started" she reponded as she sipped a drink from her coffee. I continued "You see, it's pretty much the same concept; just like in Algebra where we choose a particular letter (say "X" or "Y" and equate it to another letter or number, like X = 2 or Y = 2+X."  As long as that assigned relationship between "X" and "Y" remains intact, anything we change on "X" will affect "Y". The fun part is that (for whatever reason) we can change it to someting else, say Z = 2+X. Just like the meaning of the word "variable" entails change, we have the freedom to assign it anything we wish."
				At this point, she was feeling a little relaxed as I could sense, and she added "Okay, but what about the "Method" thing?" Frankly, I was beginning to steam up a little (of course, in frustraton with Flatiron School) for having me explain this to my mother. I grabbed a chair and continued "You see Mom,  a Method is simply a way of setting up a certain task that we will be repeating over and over." 
				"Like the paddle I kept in the pantry to "help" you do your chores over and over again...?" she injected as she laughed. Instead of getting angrier, I decided to go with the flow "Yes, yes Mom! You got the point exactly!  Instead of having to use different things when the issue of discipline came up, the paddle was your "method". The tech guys are using the same idea when their programs become large and complex; they set (and store) that task to a method that they can call on every time they need to do that particular job." I was now beaming with excitement, knowing that she'd at least picked up on the idea, but I didn't stop there "Okay, okay, here'a another example. Mom, think about the time you were cleaning the house and you wanted a simplier way to handle the "wiping" part of doing the job. You had a bowl of water, soap, towel (always kept together as a unit), and you'd just zip through from room to room because it represented the process of wiping surfaces as one stage of a whole. Later, you'd follow that by the "vacuuming" routine from room to room and so forth until the entire house was cleaned and spotless". 
				She gave me a hard long look, kissed me on the forehead, and added "Son, sorry if I seemed a little harsh in my questioning, but I now realize that these tech guys really want to make our lives easier. Look at me today; I have a cell phone that I can use to call my siblings and cousins. I'd never imagined having one when you were born". Before she left the room, she asked "Will you promise me that when you're done, I'll have my own robot to do all the chores in the house (in order for me to rest)? "Uh-h-h, but Mom...?" was my response I scratched my head, searching for what to say. "Got you! Just kidding...." she added as we both laughed hysterically.
